Welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to discuss the amnesty dataset before we actually get started.
Compositional neural networks and cares.
I want to quickly take a brief moment to really understand this classical dataset.
And if you've ever had any other course or even write a book on deep learning you've probably already
encountered this dataset before it's super famous in the field especially accomplished on your own networks
and deep learning.
I want to quickly cover some basics about it since we're going to be using really similar data concepts
specifically the way we organize these datasets into four dimensional arrays.
So the reason that idea quite frequently throughout the course I want to briefly cover that OK now for
this particular dataset fortunately it's really easy to access.
Kerry's use upload it with a built in function and carers and it has 60000 training images and 10000
test images right off the bat.
You can tell that it's a huge dataset and the M this dataset in case you're not familiar with it it
contains handwritten single digits from 0 to 9.
So here we see some examples of all the different ways people draw zeroes ones twos threes and so on
now.
As you may imagine a single digit image can be represented as an array so specifically in this dataset
the arrays are 28 by 28 and they're just pixels where the value of 0 represents white and the value
of 1 represents black.
So these values are grayscale meaning we only have a single colour channel and it's also important to
note here is that it's been standardised or normalized so you can see all the values fall between 0
and 1 instead of values from 0 to two hundred fifty five.
That's really gonna help our new old network learn on this particular sorts of datasets.
So often when we're working with Image Data we will normalize things to fall between 0 and 1.
This dataset already has that step for us.
Now we can think of the entire group of sixty thousand images or for the test sets ten thousand images
as a four dimensional array and it's four dimensions because we have the dimension for all the images
the dimension for the colour channel.
In this case it's one and then dimension for the X and Y 28.
So have this really large for the marginal array.
And so it's gonna have for that mentions of sixty thousand twenty eight by twenty eight and then one.
So we have the samples the X and the Y and then number of colour channels.
In this case we have just a single colour channel because it's grayscale the four colour images that
last dimension value would be three because we'd have one value for red one value for green and a one
vote for blue all standardized between 0 and 1 now for the actual labels we're going to use something
known as one hot encoding.
This means that instead of having categorical labels such as strings of 1 2 etc. We'll have a single
array for each image.
Now the original labels when you upload it and carries they're actually given as a list of numbers.
So if the very first image is a drawing of the number five then it's corresponding label is just the
digit five.
And what we need to do is we need to convert that to one hot encoding.
Again this transformation is actually really easily done of carers.
But I want to make sure that we understand what's happening behind the scenes so what happens is the
label is represented based off the index position in the label array the corresponding label will be
a one at the index location and zero everywhere else.
For example if you happen to have a drawn digit A4 then it would have this particular label array.
Notice the index 4 so 0 1 2 3 4 that is one hot encoded to be a 1.
And the reason we use this one hot encoding is because it works really well with a single layer output
where we have ten neurons and then each of them is trigger to fire off a sigmoid to either 0 or 1 now
as a result.
The labels for the training data ends up being a really large to the array.
So we end up having sixty thousand by ten because each of those labels is now an array of ten.
And in case this image isn't really clear when we actually see it in num pi it looks something like
this.
So here's our white train for instance and we have all these one hot and coatings.
So that means if you look at the second row that number its label is 0 because it's one hot encoded
at one index 0.
And for some of these other ones it deleted well has an ellipses for the middle value.
So we can't quite tell OK so now that we understand the end this data set and one high encoding let's
apply our new knowledge of convolution on neural networks with Kerry's on this dataset.
Let's get started.
I'll see you at the next lecture.